So what we said last week
and there were some material
actually remained from the
conversion. So I start a
conversion topic and to just have a review and then we
continue with. Arithmetic and
negative numbers so.
Let me.
Yeah, conversion.
And this one now.
Have to share my screen.
So again,
because I
only have
one monitor,
so. Please, I
mean, I mean communicate
with audio regarding your
questions and.
OK, are you able to
see my screen now?
Oh cool.
So let's start with. I mean
before I start, let let take
your questions are. Is there any
question regarding the lab
assignment lecture assignment?
And, uh, whatever I mean issue
regarding related to the course.
Uh, I'm ready to take
your questions.
For the last week's assignment
submission, they're gonna do.
Uh, I actually.
Thursday at two no no
Tuesday midnight, which is I
mean tomorrow midnight which
is Wednesday morning 7:00 AM
Eastern Time.
So you have, uh, so tomorrow,
midnight, or I mean the day
after tomorrow 7:00 AM.
Uh, regarding I mean for this
submission for this week, the
labs and all the lecture
assignment for this week is also
already in Black Blackboard, so
you can have a look at the.
Does it need to be able to
handle integers? Are all not
really because The thing is?
We are coding in C and in see we
don't have any Boolean value, so
that's why we have to create an
integer value to store the zero
and ones and. But when when the
user inputs the numbers you have
to check that the numbers is
just between 01. If a user put
for instance two or three, you
have to. I mean, I mean, just
show an error message to the
user, an, uh, basically, say
that please put zero and one
only so you have to check the
entrance for the numbers.
And still number. I thought they
were the same thing. Uh Oh no,
the the these submissions only
ask for your you win ID.
Another student number you uwin id. So the first part of
your uwindsor email gonna be in
your file names, yeah?
Sorry, I meant. Are you
supposed to be able to
handle this alone is like.
Uh no, no, no. For now I mean
just an integer numbers. Just
I'm basically just from the
integer numbers, only one at
zero and one. Yeah in CI I could
say that I mean.
Not really, there is no Boolean
value in C language. Boolean
data type and they think that
you mentioned here at the
underlying bool type. This is an
additional library to the
comment to the C compiler as you
know, see extended each year. So
for instance we have different
version of the C compiler for C
and the last version is the C++
and ETC so, but the even in the
C++. Although you have a Boolean
data type but in behind the
scene it is just one character,
so it has 8 bits or one byte. So
basically uh, see doesn't have.
I mean originally doesn't have
any Boolean data type, it's kind
of a simulation of the Boolean
to as we did, for instance, just
one car represent if it is all
zero, it means that it is zero.
If it is non 0 E it.
The meaning that it
is a binary digit 1.
Yeah.
Yeah correct. I mean insomnia. I
mean 99 years in the year that
the standard the C compiler. So
1999 the standard. I mean the C
compiler, so it becomes C9 nine.
Yes, I mean there is a course
called programming languages. In
that course you study hard to
implement data types in the
programming language. For
instance, imagine you want to
write your own programming
language. So how to design in
new programming language and how
you provide data.
Touch your programming language.
So you can discuss this more
there, but as far as we concern,
uh, we the binary digits zero
and one you can store the binary
digit by string. Just one
character, 01 character one.
Yeah.
So.
More details about the
programming stuff, uh, you can.
I refer you to that course, so
any other questions?
So since there is
no question, uh?
So let's start with the uh.
Conversion, so we sat at a
conversion means that, uh?
Converting a number in a base,
for instance R or let me.
My laser point.
And then we want to see what's
the representation of the same
number but in another place are
prime. So basically, given a
number in this or you want to
convert it to base our prime.
We already saw that how we can
represent any number in any
basis in any radix numbering
system to 10. Basically, the
idea was that this is the mass
formulation, so each digit
multiply by the significant of
that position and then some
altogether. So any number in
any base are gonna be
represented in base 10 or
decimal system by this
formulation.
So any question.
Another variable yes. Yeah yeah.
I mean the the the basis.
So from any Besarta base 10
this is a formulation.
We already saw some example of
it, but The thing is, if you
reach the I mean if you see a
number in decimal system, how
you represent it in another
numbering system based R?
We said that we can imitate or
we can have an idea about the
conversion algorithm by
converting a decimal number
itself. Basically, the
conversion means that creating
the digits in the numbering
system, so if they could created
digits of the decimal number, we
can follow the same algorithm
for creating the digits in
another numbering system.
So in a decimal system, if you
want to extract it digits, these
are the digits. So for instance
131 and etc. These are the
digits of each position. In
order to do that, you have to
simply multiply by 10.
I'm sorry, divide by 10. So you
divide by 10. Remainder is the
digit. So for instance here in
this example or we show that
this number divided by 10.
The module operator, which means
that the remainder operator
gives the remainder, so the
remainder of the First Division
is the 1st digit.
And then the remainder of the
next division by any quotient,
the quotient of previous
division, divided again by 10.
The remainder is the 2nd digit.
And then we show that. I mean
you if you continue the
division, the division of
Quotient by 10 U, the remainder
of the digits.
So basically this is the way we
generate with digits in decimal
system. But The thing is because
the First Division, the
remainder of the First Division
is the 1st digit up until the
time that you reached the
quotient zero, you put the
digits in the reverse order.
Because the other member of the
last division is the highest
significant digit and the
remainder of the First Division
is the 1st digit.
So we said that we can do the
same in order to bring a number
in decimal system to other
bases, for instance based 16. So
multiple division by 16.
And then putting the remainders
in the reverse order. But we
have to care. Be careful about
the base numbers that the bases
are greater than 10 because of
for these bases.
The digits after 10 are
alphabets. So for instance here
11 is, B-15 is FN etc
so. We have to simply. I mean
put the correct alphabet for
that remainder. This is only for
those bases that are more than
base 10. For instance, PS Eleven
Base 12 is 16 or base 64. We
already saw that.
So again, another example would
be this. I mean from base 10 to
base eight. So you have to
create the digits of phase eight
so you have to simply divide the
number by 8. The first remainder
is the 1st digit.
And the quotient divided by 8
the 2nd reminder, the 2nd digit.
So. Multiple division by 8 and
then put the reminders in the
reverse order so the same number
in decimal system cannot be this
number in this 8.
Space 4 the same. So the same
algorithm, the number divided by
4. The first amended the First
Division, the 1st Digit.
And the quotient of the First
Division divided by 4 because
the 2nd digit, the remainder to
come the 2nd digit an itself.
So this is the number in base 4.
Base two the same as you see if
you lower the base number
because you are lowering the
significance of his position,
you need more position to
represent the same number.
However, questions if you
increase the base number, for
instance to be a 16, you need a
less number position too.
Represent the same decimal
number you already saw that,
uh, because there isn't, is
that the signal. If you
increase the significant you
increase, they want to
represent wider range of
numbers.
So here's the basic algorithm,
so any decimal number to any
other drinks over or would be
more than 10 or less than 10.
Just divide the number by over.
The cautions the first number is
the First Division is it has the
number itself, but the other
divisions, the quotient of
previous division divided by R
Keep the remainder as the
digits. And then put the
remainder in the reverse order
and you have to be careful about
those bases. More than 10. You
have to substitute the remainder
with the correct alphabet for
the correct region. For
instance, if they remain there
is 15, you have to replace it by
app and we said that this is a
mass formulation that any number
a / B. The remainder is always
less than be.
So their remainders of these
divisions are always less than
R. You never see it a reminder
that which is our or greater
than. So that's why at the
end of the day, the
remainders are all valid
digits. The only thing is
that for the base greater
than 10, you have to replace
it with the alphabet.
So you would ask that is it
possible to convert any base or
to any other bases are prime and
the answer is correct. It is
possible and you have to mediate
that full base 10. So you have
to convert any number in base R,
bring it to decimal system and
found the decimal system you
bring it to the base or prime.
So the first part of the
algorithm already know that
using that math formulation and
the second part is just dividing
by our crime.
And then putting the
remainder in the reverse
order. So any besarta Benny
base our prime should be done
through the decimal system.
For instance, if this is the
number in base 16 Ann, I want to
bring it to base 8. First of
all, I have to bring it to base
10. So by math formulation.
Each digit multiply by the
significant of that position.
And then sum them together.
And then this is the decimal
number. I have to bring this
decimal number to base ten
base eight. So you have to
divide by 8 and then put there
remained in the reversal.
And here is the result.
So far we did converting only
the integer part of the numbers
of. However, if the number has
some fraction numbers.
So the way we did for come up
with an algorithm for conversion
was just to imitate or to see
what's the algorithm. When we
convert a decimal number to
itself just to see how we
extract it digit. The same is
here if you want to see how I
can convert a number with
fraction part. Uh, I assume
that I want to convert a
number in decimal system with
fraction for two itself.
It is trivial, but it shows us
what is the algorithm. So
imagine we have this a fraction
number in decimal system.
If I want to generate the
digits for instance 26501,
what they do is that simply if
you multiply this digit by 10,
you extract the 1st digit at
the position of attempt to the
power of minus one.
If you multiply by 10 to the
power of 2.
You extracted digit 46.
Because 10 to the power point is
2 * 10 to the power of two
exacted this. So in another
word. Each time you multiply by
10, you shift the number to the
right. The first multiplication
by 10 the 1st Digit II.
Multiplication about 10 the 2nd
digit and etc.
So you see that if you multiply
the fraction part.
Why two sorry by 10.
So this number by 10.
The integer part of the result
gonna be the first digits.
And then if you continue.
So you just bring the remainder
of the fraction part.
And then multiply by another 10.
So the six gonna be the integer
part of the result.
And you continue this way.
So the number multiplied by 10.
The integer part of the result
is the 1st digit.
You continue with the
remainder fraction for it.
By 10 so the next 6 and
then the remainder is 501. So
you multiply 501 with ten 5
gonna be the next agent.
Up until the last that you
received the zero, so you put
these digit in the right order.
So you see, the difference
between the conversion of the
integer part and the fraction
part in the integer part. You'd
move divide by 10 and then put
the remainder in the reverse
order in the fraction conversion
in order to create the digits,
you multiply by 10 and then put
it in the right order.
So. The same algorithm is for
converting any fraction number
in decimal system to any
fraction number. In other
systems information space 16. So
let's have a look at an example.
So here's an example. So this is
the number in base 10.
So here I just wanted to create
the digits not in base 10, but
in base 16. So I have to
multiply these number this
number to this 16. So this
number multiplied by 16 the
integer part of the result is
the 1st digit.
And the remainder fraction part
of the results.
Multiply by 16 the integer part
gonna be the next digit.
And then the remainder fraction
part of the result multiplied by
16. 13 Is the next
digit 13 in base 16 is
equal to alphabetti?
And then the remainder
fraction form multiply
by 16 the next digit.
So you see that the algorithm is
this. Multiply the number by the
base. Keep the integer part of
the result as the digit and then
continue with the remainder
fraction part of the result.
I put the digits in the right
order.
So.
For instance, from 7:50, the
same 10 to 4% and 1:50
December. So you have to
simply multiply by two here.
Here we have to multiply by 4
or by 8, so you could do this
just by simply using an Excel
sheet instead of just using
Calculator and then write in
a paper. So let me show you
an Excel sheet how we can
create an Excel sheet to do
that for us.
So let's open Excel.
Oh, I already created this Excel
sheet and I will put it in the
blackboard. But just to show you
how to use a Excel to do that.
So if you are given an as your
number and you wanna uh, convert
it to base R.
Uh. Imagine we just wanted
to do the integer part,
converting the integer part an
imagine N is in the decimal
system. So an if N is
for instance 435 and we want to
bring it to base 174 or base 3.
So basically what we have to do
is that this has only the
integer part, so we have to do
division. So the division
in the Excel the
function called Quotient Sorry
mode. Told me that the
remainder, the remainder
of this number.
By this number.
So this is the reminder and you
have what is the caution you
have to continue the division
with the quotient. So here.
Uh, in the Excel there is a
function call options here.
The quotient of this
number, oh sorry.
Potions?
The quotient of this number and
this number. Who is the coach?
And so you have to continue with
the division of the question
with the tree.
So I'll just repeat this, we
here. And then the
remainder of the divisions,
and then the cautions.
So you see that, uh, if you
convert 435 in decimal system to
pay 3, these are the digits. So
these are the remainders. So you
have to put the remainder in the
reverse order so the reverse
folder gonna be one too.
1010 so this is the
number in base free.
So 435 because 121010 in Base
Street. But this was just
conversion to integer part. How
about the fraction form?
So if you have a fraction
number, for instance M and you
wanna bring it the same for
instance another base or imagine
you have a disk fraction number,
for instance 300, three, 68.
Are you wanna bring
it to the base free?
So basically you have to
multiply by three so this one
multiplied by base number. This
is the one and then you have to
keep the integer part.
How can you keep the integer
part you have to simply just.
This number.
Oh, this is it is either you
can. I mean you can.
Extract you can do the floor or
just exactly integer part of the
number. So in the Excel basic
function called floor.
Floor of this number.
Is the integer part of the
result? But how about you have
to continue with the remainder
integer part. So basically you
have to extract the fraction
part of this so this one.
So this one minus this one. The
integer part minus the actual
result gonna be the result of
the remainder integer part. But
this thing is because, uh.
We have to do this.
Very very slowly. So basically
this one minus.
Integer for gonna be the
remainder fraction part and then
you have to continue.
Uh, did he give
multiplications?
So you see that I mean this
number multiplied by three. The
integer part of the result one,
and then the remainder, and then
the remainder multiplied by
three. The integer part of this
number is 0, the remainder is
this, and then you continue the
remainder fraction form.
You can share with the remainder
fraction part by the, multiplied
by three. The integer part of
the result is zero and the
remaining fraction for you
continue an again and then put
the digits in the right order,
so the digit gonna be 1002210211
and etc. So you have to
continue. Sometimes you reach
the number 0. It means that
there is no further modification
needed. Sometimes there is no
end to that, so I can continue
this for. More numbers.
I did something wrong.
Uh, sorry.
This one I have to.
Do this and no
and then. I have
to get this.
Am I doing right?
Uh.
This number here.
This is.
Oh, there's a there's a
problem here.
Oh, I have to do this as well.
Yes, that's now I think that's
correct, yeah, so you see that
there is no end to that. So here
is the I mean, the first
question of the last week's
assignment was that if I give
only four position, I could
represent this conversion just
by 1002. If I have more position
in the fraction part, I can
represent it with the priests
more precise number.
So as you can see, it never
ends. So if I need I mean an end
position in the fraction for two
exactly represent this decimal
fraction number in Bay 3.
So that's the error comes, so I
have to either. I mean keep this
four and then the remainder is
the error. Or I if I have more
position, I have less error.
So this is the way that you can
wear the fraction part.
So you would ask that how
can I convert this number 435
point? 368
So basically what I did is this.
You convert the integer part
with the division algorithm and
you convert the fraction form
with multiplication algorithm
and then you attach them
together. So this number
becomes. Uh, this fraction
part is this, so it
becomes 121010 dot.
Be a fraction
in version 100221021
etc.
So here is the conversion. Full
conversion of the decimal number
into another base.
So let's back to the slot.
So again, as I showed, if you
have a number that has integer
part and fraction part in base
R. You want to bring it to the
base or prime. First you bring
it to the base 10. The integer
part math formulation, the
fraction part math formulation.
We already said in the last
lectures and then when you end
up with the decimal system, you
convert the integer part and
then you convert the fraction
part in dependently.
Is 8 to base two from base four
to base two. There's a fast way
that in the lecture assignment
you already saw this algorithm.
One thing is that we can check
your result online. There are
some online website that they do
that for you, so this is one of
the most. I mean I like this
website because it gives you the
error too. So planet calc let me
open this website.
Find out, uh.
Yeah this one. So this website.
What state is kind of use
that it's over?
So. In this website
you keep you give your SU-16, at
cetera. There's a faster way to
do this, and that in the lecture
summer you already saw that.
And also the reverse. So fan
base eight to base two from base
four. Today's two is a fast way
that in the lecture assignment
you already saw this algorithm.
One thing is that we can check
your result online. There are
some online website that they do
that for you, so this is one of
the most. I mean I like this
website because it gives you the
error too. So planet count let
me open this website.
Span at uh.
Yeah this one. So this website.
What state is kind of use
that it's over?
So. Cortana in this website you
keep you give your source number
and you in determine the base
and you want to convert it to
another base number.
Behind the website there is
design the algorithm that we
discussed, so this is a website
that you can check your result.
For instance if I want to
convert, let's check our number
in the Excel sheet that we do or
let's see whether we did
correctly for this number.
In this town we bring you
to base 3.
So the result is 121010 in the
integer part 121010. So the
integer part is correct.
The fraction 410022102 so
let's see come here.
10022 OK, so the fraction part
is also true, so you see that
here is. It says that if I just
keep this a map of position for
the fraction part, here is the
error. In decimal system.
OK, so.
The next topic is about the
arithmetic that I'll shortly
start. But before that, let's
see the question or not.
So let's scroll up and see.
Our prime means that
another system, for
instance besarta, are prime
or prime is another
numbering system. For
instance. Oh, actually,
Nick already answered that.
So you have to extend cable. OK,
we did correct that.
I haven't checked this website,
but the website I usually uses
this. So whenever I want to
check my result, I use this
website. So one thing one
amazing thing here is this. You
can hear you said that I mean
you with eight fraction points.
Here is the error, so you can
increase the Franklin says if I
have 20 fraction point.
You see, the error is much less
if I have. Only two
fraction form.
So here there is much more
higher. So The thing is that
this website gives you a. I mean
adjust the fraction positions
for your conversion.
And also I mean if I want to do
some base can I do?
This fan base two to base three
given this number.
You cannot do that.
What's the reason?
Anybody?
Correct, yes, the
reason is that.
Of this number has digits 8,
meaning that the least possible
base number would be 9.
Even you cannot convert this
eight because the 8th admitted
it is not a bad, but you can
start with 9.
And you see, if you assume
that this number is based 9
conversion today, three is
this, and this is a
complicated. I mean nothing
because you have to bring this
to base 10 first and then so
you have to do this. You have
to bring it to base 10 first.
This is the best hand and then
you have to put this here.
From base 10.
Break free.
And here is the result.
But at this at this website,
does that in I mean immediately
for you? So if you put your
number and you put the source
for instance 9 and then the
target it does, I mean
immediately for you.
OK, so.
Any other questions?
So if there's no question
I can continue with the
next round of slides, which
is about arithmetic.
So let me.
I put this Excel sheet in
the blackboard so you can
have a reference for that.
Next is.
Slides.
One pieces.
So.
Now that we are able to
represent numbers are either
integer part with integer part
an fraction part. The next
question is that how can we do
some operation on these numbers?
The whole set of operation on a
number is called algebra. Little
will discuss what is, I mean the
the true definition of algebra.
But simply we could say that
doing arithmetic on numbers.
The most immediate arithmetic we
all know is the addition of two
numbers. For instance, a
distance from here to one place
A and then from A to see the
whole distance gonna be the sum
of these two distances. So we
need addition of two numbers.
The addition is very similar to
decimal system. You already know
how to do to add 2 numbers from.
I mean secondary school or
primary school. So what we want
to see. What's up with the other
basis? If we are in base two
base four or for instance here
based 16 just by a quick
example, you know the idea.
Basically the 1st.
Thing we have to do is making
the two numbers equal size.
In order to do that, we can add
zeros to the left side of any
number, because 0 multiplied by
any significant becomes 0, so it
doesn't have any impact.
You cannot add this to 0 here,
because if you do hear you shift
all the numbers to the left and
you increase the significant of
the digits, this is not
possible. So you have to add the
zero from the leftmost position
up until to the I mean the
other. I mean to the left side.
In the fraction part you can
do the same, but this time in
the right side of the number.
If you add zeros to the right
side of the number, there is
no impact or effect.
Again, for the fraction part,
you cannot add zero in the left
part of the fraction because it
shifts the number to the right
and decrease the significant of
the digits. So after this is
called padding in the in. In
this week's assignment, I
explained this padding in the
lecture assignment more.
So when you make the two numbers
equal equal size by padding, you
start at this.
So each digit added by each
other. So 4 + 0 becomes 4.
5 + B B in decimal in base 16
is equal to 11 in decimal
system. So you do 5 + 11
to come 16, but 16 is not a
valid number in base 16. You
have 2 / 16 by this division you
extract the significance of 16
by the amount of 16.
So the question becomes one and
you put you leave the remainder
here and we bring a carry to the
higher significant position.
So the result becomes zero and
plus a carry. And then you
continue addition one.
Carrie from previous edition
plus EE is equal to 14 + 2
becomes 17, so 17 is larger than
the largest digit in the base
16. So you have to divide by 16.
A Carrie Ann put. Leave the
remainder. So as a result, the
remainder gonna be here and the
Carrie goes to the higher,
higher significant position.
Uh, one thing? Remember we
already said that we never waste
or Astaire position for the
decimal point or fraction point.
This is just for the sake of
illustration, so there is no
space left for the fraction
point. So 1 + 8 + F
A is equal to 10 F is equal to
15, so in total it becomes 26
and then 26 / 16. The remainder
is 10 or side. They remain, the
quotient is 1, the remainder is
10. So you leave the remainder
and we carry as one to the high
signal position. But 10 is not a
valid digit. You replace it with
the correct alphabet. And you
can change it. So 1 + 2
+ 11 becomes 14. You put the
correct alphabet E and then 0 +
4 four. So the result is this
four EA .104.
Very similar to the decimal
system. You can do the addition
in other system very similar.
The idea is that just if the
number, the result of the
addition is greater than the
largest digit, you have to
divide by the base number and
created Carrie Ann. Leave the
remainder.
Multiplication is, uh, I
just. Some addition plus some
additional. I mean shifting etc,
so this end if you go and see
how the multiplication is done
in decimal system you can extend
it to any other basis as we did
for the addition, so I leave it
as an exercise for you.
Subtraction, subtraction is
important, that's why I just
want to give you an example in
decimal system 1st and then see
what's going on with the other
basis. Imagine you want to
subtract 2 decimal numbers. We
already know how to do this in
primary school. But usually when
we do the subtraction, we see we
compare the numbers and we put
the larger number first and then
a smaller number second.
But this is not necessary. You
can subtract any 2 numbers
regardless of the compiler. I
mean whether they are I mean
larger than each other. Or I
mean without any comparison. You
can do this subtraction.
So here is an example that the
first number is less than the
second number, and let's see
what's the result. If the first
number is larger than the second
number, you already know how to
do that, but here is an
exception that the first number
is smaller than the second
number. So the first is just
making the same size, so by
padding the integer part and the
fraction part. And then it
starts subtraction. So 4 -- 0
becomes 4. 5 -- 6 It
is not possible to do that. So
the idea we know that the idea
borrowing so we borrow from the
higher significant position one
unit when one unit from the
higher significant position
comes to the lowest significant
position it brings to the amount
of the bill. So if you borrow 1
unit from the higher significant
position it brings.
Plus 10 if you are in base 10.
Now we can. We are able to do
the subtraction so. 10 + 5
becomes 15 and now we can
subtract 6 planet.
This becomes not.
The next is, so we already had
one. We borrowed one unit, so
becomes 1 -- 1 becomes zero, 0
-- 0 becomes 0.
And then we continue for the
integer Part 1 -- 2 is not
possible, so we borrow when we
borrow from the higher position
it brings to the amount of the
base number. Base 10 with brings
10 units. 10 + 1 becomes 11 --
2 becomes 9.
Here you already had two. You
borrowed one unit, so it becomes
2 -- 1, one 1 -- 3. It's not
possible, so you have to borrow.
Now it is possible so plus 10.
A 10 + 2 -- 1 becomes
1111 -- 3 becomes 8.
And the next number is this.
The next digit minus one, so you
had zero, you borrowed one unit
from zero. So as soon as
possible, so it becomes minus
one, and now you have to
subtract minus 1, four, 4 -- 1.
This is not possible, so you
borrow. This is important. You
borrow from where you assume
that there is a larger number
that you could borrow from that.
So you borrowed from that number
so plus 10.
Plus 10 -- 1 + 10 + 10
+ 0 becomes 10 -- 1 becomes
nine, 9 -- 4 becomes 5.
So.
This last photo happened because
the first number was smaller,
the second number.
So whenever you have, you are
subtracting the smaller number
from a larger number, always
there is the last bar.
And the result is not the
correct result, because this
result doesn't subtract from
that larger number that we
assume there is a larger number
that we could borrow from that.
The only thing right now we
can see is that there is a
last follow an we could buy
this last fall. We could
say that the first number
was smaller than the 2nd.
So what's the correct result?
So the last bottle means that
the first number is smaller, so
the result going to be negative.
We know we don't know how to
represent negative numbers for
now, but we know that this
result is not the correct
result. So in order to come up
with the correct result, we have
to do another subtraction.
So this is the incorrect result
of the previous subtraction.
But that imaginary larger number
was this that we could borrow
from that. So you remember you
wanted one unit we bought from
this number that one unit. So we
have to apply this number as
well. So we have to do another
subtraction. Also, this is base
10. So if you do another
subtraction, the result of
previous subtraction from this
larger number, so 0 from 4 is
not possible, we borrow, so
becomes plus 10 now plus 10 + 0
+ 10 -- 4 becomes 6.
This the next subtraction is
this zero. We borrowed one unit
minus one is not possible to
subtract from not site to minus
nine is not possible we borrow.
And then turn plus 0 -- 1, nine
9 -- 9 becomes 0.
And you continue up until the
last one. This was the unit that
you borrowed, so it becomes 0
here. So let's do a recap. So we
wanted to subtract this number
from this number. Sorry this
number from this number.
This is the result, but we had a
last follow by Nas for we
figured out that the first
number one is smaller than the
2nd. This last photo was
borrowed from this number, so we
have to do another subtraction,
so this is the result of
previous subfraction subtracted
from that larger number. This
becomes the true result.
As you can see here.
But this number was negative.
Because the last photo showed
that the first number was
smaller, so that's why we know
that the result is negative. So
we put this correct result and
we put this signature here to
show that the result is
negative. Although we don't know
how to represent negative
numbers yet, but this is just a
symbol to show that the
subtraction was not right. You
have to another subtraction, and
this is the correct answer,
which is negative.
So now I want to show you an
example in other bases.
So the other base function space
16. Now I want to subtract this
number from this number and I
don't know this number is
smaller than the second number
or larger. So the first thing
you have to do is just padding.
Anna start subtracting.
So 4 -- 0 four.
5 -- B he is eleven. 5 -- 11
is not possible so we have to
borrow. He bought 1 unit
because we are in base 16.
When we borrow from the
higher position it gives us
the the amount of 16. So 16
+ 5. It is 21 -- 11. It is
possible so it becomes a
1010 is equal to alphabet A
in base 16.
We already had E.
Be forward one unit, so E -- 1
-- 2. He is 1414
-- 113 -- 211. Eleven is
equal to B.
So then here a -- F A is 10,
F is 15 is not possible. We
have to borrow.
Now 16 + 1026 -- 1511
eleven is equal to P.
We had two. We borrowed one unit
so it becomes 2 -- 1 one 1 --
11. It's not possible. We have
to borrow. 16 + 2
-- 1 becomes a 18 minus
one 1717 -- 11 six.
And then the next digit we had
zero. We borrowed one unit and
then becomes minus 1 -- 4. It's
not possible, so we have to
assume there is a higher number
that we could buy a borrow from
that. So we bought up on that
unit 16 and now it's possible 16
+ 0 minus one 1515 -- 4 becomes
11. And 11 is equal to be.
And as you can see here.
We didn't compare the numbers,
but we see there is a last
borrow because of this last
photo, we can say that the
first number was smaller than
the second number, so we
shouldn't look at the result.
We have to do another
subtraction from that, not
higher number that we borrowed
from.
So the last photo shows there's
a negative result an the first
number is lower than the 2nd.
So to fix the result. So we did
this subtraction 1st and we end
up with this incorrect result.
And the last for the last four
showed that we have to do
another subtraction. This was
the largest largest number that
we bought it from at the last
point, so we subtract the
result. The incorrect result
from that higher number.
So this is another
subtraction based 16, so
100 zero .000 minus this
number. So 0 -- 4 not
possible. We borrow money,
borrow we add 16 unit 16
-- 4 is 1212 is equal to C
in base 16.
We had zero. We bought 1 unit
becomes minus 1 -- 1 -- 8 or 10
is not possible. You have to
borrow. We are in base 16.
It adds 16 units, so 16 + 0
-- 1 * 1515 -- 10 becomes 5,
Ann etc. And this is the correct
result. But this correct result
is a negative result.
So this is the final number,
although we don't know how to
represent a negative number,
this is an additional symbol,
but at least we know that this
is the correct magnitude of
the correct size.
But we know that this is a
negative result, so this
number minus this number
becomes negative number and
this is the not.
Division is you can see what's
the division algorithm, decimal
system as and as you can see
division is kind of iterative
subtraction, so you know how to
do subtraction in any basis
now. So you can do any division
in any basis by knowing how to
do subtraction. So I leave it
as an exercise for you. And now
we want to see how we represent
negative numbers.
So before I start this, I'm
happy to take your questions,
OK? Let's move on here
digitally. OK, so we have one
question. Can we just had a
negative symbol? If there was a
lost phone, stop doing all that.
Yes you can. You
can do this second
subtraction just. But in one
phase, so you could say that the
first number minus the second
number, and you put the that
larger number before the 1st
number. So let me back to this
slide. You can do that, but I
just wanted to show you how
each step is going on. For
instance, let's back to the
decimal system.
So.
Yeah, we wanted to do this.
So you could, I mean, because
you know that the first number
is a smaller than the second
number, so you know that there
would be a last follow. So you
could add that larger number.
Here, for instance, you put
10001 etc and then you just
subtract the this number from
that number and then subtract
from this number in one phase.
But The thing is in usually in
others. Sometimes you get me
back to the.
Second example, sometimes you
cannot determine the first
number is smaller than the
second number or not.
So this is evident here in this
example, but sometimes you don't
know, so you have to 1st do the
subtraction and you check the
last bottle. If there is the
last photo, you now know that
the first number is smaller than
the second number and then do
the another subtraction. So
that's why we did it separately.
So any other questions?
So the next topic is very
important, so so another
question, could you give some
example where we cannot
recognize? Uh
oh. Actually I don't have
my blackboard here, so I would
put the plan example here for
you, but imagine.
Uh, imagine for the first number
for the first number we would
have this. 4 Here, so let
me just make it a pan. If
you have 4 here.
And here if you had, for
instance, of a.
OK.
So at first you see that these
are the same size and etc. So
the only thing that you can
figure out the first number is
smaller than the second number
is that you start from this
position. These are the same
digit and hear a is lower than B
an. Now you know that the first
number is smaller than the
second one. However, if this
number becomes larger, for
instance, you have for instance
10 integer numbers and assume
that you are not a human being
to do this abstraction, assume
that there is a machine to do
the subtraction. The machine
knows the first number is
smaller than the second number.
If there's a last follow after
the the last subtraction.
We because we we can see that OK
I a is less than B here. So the
first number is smaller. But
first of all, if you assume that
there is a huge number of digits
here and second of all assume
that there is a machine to do
that for you. The machine is
thought an algorithm itself is
the 1st digit, next digit and
etc and up until the last digit.
The machine, if there's the
last bottle now, it
understands that the first
number is smaller, so you have
to think of it as an
algorithm.
Uh. Yes, search and as I said,
I mean, uh, because, uh, the
digits are just three digits.
But imagine we have, for
instance, 10 digits, so you have
to check each digit 1st to see
that. Yes, yeah.
Any other questions?
So let's move on to the next
topic and I what I want from you
is that just send me some
feedback that I know you have
full attention to the class
because the next topic is kind
of important. So I'm waiting for
your feedback so you can simply
just click on your.
Uh. I mean I can't
and then send the some
feedbacks.
Thank you, Michael. Thank you Allyssa
Thank you Phillip.
Nathan Zach Afsao raaj
we have. 62 students, so
I need 62 Ahmad emoji
i can't repeat that
Awesome.
OK, so.
raaj Matthew. So in this case you see that I mean each of
you has what type of feeling?
Thank you Philip Ethan
So how about others?
I'll see if you.
Oh hi, why you? I
mean unhappy says.
Feeling.
Gary and OK, so seems everybody
has the attention. So let's
continue.
Uh.
The negative numbers.
So in the subtraction, we saw
that the store sometimes that
the result should be
interpreted as a negative
numbers, but we don't know how
to represent negative numbers.
So now we want to. So you first
start with how to represent
integer for numbers, and then we
continue with how to represent
fraction part in order to give
more precise numbers. Now we
want to represent the negative
numbers. You see how we extended
the numbering system.
So, assuming we are in change my
pen, assuming we are in the
decimal system and we only have
one position. With one
position we are able to
represent zero up until 9.
So the significant of the
position or 10 to the power
of 0, which is 1.
So the right side of the X axis.
We assume that these are the
normal numbers or compared to
the negative numbers. We could
say that these are positive
numbers. But how about negative
numbers? Basically, the negative
numbers are the positive numbers
and a simple additional symbol.
This additional symbol is called
minus. So you could say that I
can add a new position.
And this store this symbol to
show the sign of the number.
So these are negative numbers. I
stored this symbol in the this
new position which has the
significant of 10 to the power
of 1 as the negative sign.
For the positive sign, I could
put the air sign positive.
OK. But there's a problem with
this system. Oh, in this in
decimal system we only have the
0123 up until nine. These are
the valid digits. There it would
be valid symbols. There is no
symbol for negative or positive.
You can introduce 2 new symbols,
or you could reuse this. The
digits as a hint for the sign.
How this is possible? We
could say that.
For the in positive numbers, I
assume that I put 0.
So as long as I see zero.
In the higher significant
position, given your phone with
have two positions.
I assume that this number is
a positive number.
However, if I want to represent
a negative number, I could put
one so you re using the same
digit to show the sign if it is
one, it means that this number
is negative, so we didn't
introduce any new symbols. We'll
reuse the existing symbols.
In the extreme case, we could
say that if we put zero, it's
a positive number. If we put
any number, any digit which
is not zero, for instance
123, whatever number which is
not zero, we assume that this
number is a negative number.
So basically for positive
numbers we put 0.
For the negative numbers or we
could use any digits which is
not zero functions. We could put
one. We could put two. We could
put 9 whatever digit which is
not zero. Because we have
only one position, we have to
put 1 digit only, but that
number digit would be 2,
three whatever non zero in
order to show that the number
is negative. For instance
negative two becomes 1 two
which is equal to put 2, two
or 9 two. So all these
numbers are equal to negative
two this number.
For negative 5 in this system,
you could say that I put five in
the in this position in the
lowest significant position.
For the high significant
position I put any non 0 digit
Princess 9 so 95 becomes might
negative 5. Somebody else would
say that I I want to put one, so
15 becomes negative 5.
However, positive fight is 05.
So there are two problems with
this system. This system is able
to represent negative numbers
without introducing 2 new
symbols. But there are two main
problem with this system.
The first problem is that.
You A waste one position
just to show this sign.
So this position, as you can see
here, doesn't have any
significance. It just shows the
sign. So you should assume that
there is no significant in this
position first of all.
So the second thing is that.
As you can see here we have
positive zeros. And also we have
negative zeros. In math, we know
that there is only 1 zero.
Positive, zero and negative is 0
or all the same, so we have only
1 zero and actually 0 doesn't
have any sign.
But in this system we have
positive zero. We have negative
0. But the important thing, uh,
this shows is this.
There are different combination
of digits that the reduced one
single number. For instance,
here, 10 is negative, 020 is
negative, 090 is negative zero,
or three zero is negative 0. So
you see that all these
combinations are representing
one. Number. All of which is
negative 0, which is equal to
positive 0. Also for 4 --
3. 4 plus free. We have this but
but 4 -- 3 we had different
combination of all are the same
number. Although we put
different digits, so we are kind
of wasting space. The first
waste is wasting one position
for just showing the sign.
Although this position has
the significance of 10, but
we use it just to show two
different things, either
positive or negative. Also,
for the negative numbers, we
could put any non 0 value to
show one single negative
numbers which is a waste of
a combination of numbers.
So these are the problem
with this system.
This system is called signed
magnitude. Although it has some
problems, but it still it is
possible it is able to represent
negative numbers. This system in
general, if you are given an
position from position zero up
until the position N -- 1.
You just extract the last
position in the highly
significant position. And as a
result, it loses the
significance and you only
consider the remaining position
at the number. So this is called
magnitude and the higher
significant position which
doesn't have any significance
anymore is a sign.
If you see 0 means that the
remaining number, the positive
number, if there is a non 0
number here, it means that the
remainder numbers is a negative
number, so that's why we call it
sign magnitude. So for the
negative numbers, the negative
the number is positive in the
remainder positions, but we just
change this position to have a
non 0 value.
So.
In when we don't have any.
When we go on the spare, any
position for the signature or
for the sign. The range of
numbers would be from zero up
until the last number R to the
power of N -- 1.
However, now that we just
extract one position as a sign.
Did maximum positive number is 0
an putting the largest digit in
all the other positions which
becomes R to the power of N -- 1
-- 1. So you see the power
actually reduced by 1 unit.
And the smallest number, the
minimum number now is not zero
anymore. Because we have
negative numbers, so the
negative numbers are the number
that has a non 0 value here and
the largest number here.
Which becomes art above N -- 1
-- 1. This is the largest
positive number, but if you
change the sign it becomes the
smallest negative number.
So as an example, an exercise in
the lecture assignment for this
week, I ask you what is the
waste here? What numbers were
wasting by this system?
And is it possible to improve
this system to represent, uh, I
mean to reuse those ways and
numbers or not?
So.
Now we want to see that now
we can represent negative
numbers by sign magnitude
system. Is it possible to do
arithmetic in this system?
So the arithmetic insists in
this system is this.
Basically, uh, you extract one
position as the sign.
And the remainder positions are
the magnitude of the number.
So either you do an addition or
subtraction. For the addition,
these are the possibilities.
Either you add 2 positive
numbers. When you add 2 positive
numbers, the result is always
positive, so this sign.
Position going to have zero
and you simply add 2
numbers, so we already knew
how to add 2 numbers.
When you do, adding a positive
number and a negative number.
It is actually doing in
subtraction because positive X
plus negative Y is equal to X --
1. You know how to do this.
So you do this subtraction and
if there is a last borrow, it
means that X was smaller than Y.
So it means that the result is
negative. You could want non 0
value here. However, if there is
no borrow means that X was
larger than one, so you put zero
here. So this time depends on
the result. So you have to do
first the subtraction and
distant subtraction. You
determine the sign.
When you are adding two negative
numbers. The result is always
negative because we are adding
two negative numbers, so minus X
+ -- y is equal to minus X
+ y, which is negative.
You put one here and do the
normal addition.
Put the subtraction, subtracting
2 positive numbers.
So positive X minus positive
Y is equal to X -- Y, so you
know how to do this. And
again, depending on the last
photo, you determine these
sign off the result.
Subtracting a positive number.
And a negative number so
positive X minus negative Y.
This is equal to minus negative,
so it becomes positive so.
Minus X sorry positive plus X
-- -- Y becomes plus X
+ y. So it is the normal
addition an always the
sun gonna be positive.
Subtracting two negative
numbers, so minus X -- -- X so
it becomes minus X + y.
Which is equal to y -- X. So you
just switched the numbers you do
the subtraction and based on
this subtraction, if there's a
last borrow, you put a negative
sign here, which is a non 0
digit if it is no there is no
follow. It means that you put
the positive. We put zero here.
So this is a whole different
possibilities. Happens in the
addition or subtraction of two
sign magnitude numbers.
So I think you don't have much
time, so I put these slides up
until the end in the blackboard
so we can have a look at that
and next lecture. We're going to
review that. So.
I'm ready for your questions.
So Nick asks that that, uh.
So negative numbers can have any
number within that space in
front of it. Yes, yes. So for
instance, in base 16 the sign
number design number in the
last, the last position would be
15 Fe, whatever non 0 value
represented negative number.
It's not just only 121238
etc, but if it is zero, it
means that that's positive.
So 30 Anna asked at
X negative four Y.
If X + y is 0.
Wow.
So that's, uh, China, can you
ask your question? I'm not sure
I understand your question.
Thank you all. Have a great day
everybody. So I just let's see
Tatiana. I'm not sure I
understand your question,
Tatiana, you. Can you
explain it more?
Also, you
can turn
on your
mic and.
Explain your question verbally.
Oh
I can make you.
Uh.
So.
The opposite.
So. Let me let me
enable your mic so you can.
It's not, it's not OK.
Make presenter so now I believe
you can enable your Mike and so
we can. We can talk.
Wow. Oh
Um?
If X + y is 0
then X is equal to.
Twilight. Yes, correct, yes.
I think that's what you. OK,
yes, correct, but The thing is,
as I said, when you do the
addition in sign magnitude will
still I mean next lecture that
you shouldn't consider the
position in your arithmetic or
let me come back to slide.
So for instance, as I said, if X
+ Y is 0 means that X is minus
Y, but then you do that. For
instance, imagine. Uh.
Here, imagine here, so positive
X plus. Assume that Y is equal
to X, so it becomes positive X
plus negative Y.
So when you do that, you have to
do X -- X. So which becomes zero
when it becomes zero. There is
no last borrow, it means that.
X was not smaller than Y. As a
result, it becomes 0, so the
final result going to be 0 in.
This had the positive.
Sign and the result gonna be 0
so positive 0.
Yeah, if that's the that
was the question.
Yeah.
But again, as I saw how we
represent, if number have more
than one position.
Oh, we'll see I mean, in the
Lexus line, let me go back to
the next slide here.
I I I didn't have enough time to
explain this examples, but here
assume that we are we are given
2 numbers in the base, 16 in the
sun magnitude system.
So here we have fraction part an
integer part, but you see here
we have we had three position in
the integer part. But because we
are in the sign magnitude we
just remove the last position
for the sign. So you see this
arithmetic this line. This line
only applies on the remaining
position. It doesn't include the
last position because the last
position doesn't have any
significant anymore. This is not
part of the number.
This just shows the sun. Now
if you do this edition. So
basically this addition is
the first one is a negative
number because there is a non
0 value here.
The second number is also a
negative number because there's
a one in this sign position.
Which is not part of the number
again and then you do padding
and it starts up addition.
So you you do this, an addition
so becausw minus X the first
number plus the second number is
minus Y, so it becomes minus X +
-- Y which is equal to minus X
+ y. So before doing the
arithmetic you already knew that
the result gonna have.
Gonna be a negative so you put
one so before the result you
know these sign of the result.
And then you do the addition.
And here is the result of the
addition, so it becomes.
Negative number and this is the
magnitude of the number.
I hope I explain your question.
Yes, yes, just the other thing
is when we say first position,
the first position from the left
side. So sometimes you may say
that the first position from the
right side, but we usually say
that the hyest significant
position. So basically the first
position from the left.
We just leave it as the sign and
then we consider the the
remaining position as the
number. Yeah.
You're welcome and I'm glad that
I could answer your question.
And any other
question.
You too Michael have a great
day, so I'm going to be in the
office hour, so if you have
any questions I'm ready to
take your question there too.
Thank you Seham so let me stop.
The recording.